[ Silence ]
>> [Background Music]
And I think many people
today don't know what
to believe anymore.
>> People need to keep
on to help uncover
what really happened.
>> I felt like something
was watching me.
>> We weren't given
all the information.
We weren't told the
entire story.
[ Pause ]
>> George Noory: Well,
welcome to Beyond Belief.
I'm George Noory.
Have you ever wondered what
it's like to communicate
and see an entity
from the other side?
Well, our special guest
does all the time.
Take a look.
>> Mary Ann Winkowski:
[Background Music] I found
out that I have special gift
when I was seven years old.
But it sort of backwards
because when I was seven,
I found out nobody else
could do what I do.
I thought everybody could do it.
When I was two years old,
my grandmother realized
that I could see and talk
to earthbound spirits.
What she didn't realize is
that all children can talk
to earthbound spirits
plus ones that crossed
over and guardian angels.
So, she started taking
me around to funerals
when I was four years old.
And I've just been
doing that ever since.
If I'm in town, I still go
to 10 or 12 funerals a month.
People invite me to
their funeral to talk
to their loved one
for the last time.
I don't feel different
from anybody else only
because this is normal for me.
When I go out, I do
see spirits everywhere.
The really good thing is they
don't know I can see them unless
I start talking to them.
>> Noory: And welcome
back o Beyond Belief
with our special guest,
Mary Ann Winkowski.
Two years old you saw
spirits and ghosts?
>> Winkowski: Yeah.
But, all the kids can do that.
I mean, the imaginary friends--
>> Noory: I couldn't
do it when I was two.
>> Winkowski: Oh, I bet
you don't remember--
>> Noory: I don't think.
>> Winkowski: I bet you had
a really great imagination,
that's what your mom
would have called it.
>> Noory: Was it
genetic for you?
>> Winkowski: Grammy
had the ability,
but not as good as
I could do it.
She realized I could
do it better than her
and that's what she started
taking into the funerals.
>> Noory: And Mary Ann,
now you go to funerals--
>> Winkowski: A lot--
>> Noory: -- on a regular basis?
>> Winkowski: Yeah, I do.
It's really strange
because I used
to go anytime anybody
invited me.
But now, I had to make rules.
And the rule is you have to
be an immediate family member.
You can't believe how
nosy some neighbors are.
So, it has to be an immediate
family member and, you know,
and if it's a quick
death, it's pretty good
because where do you want to
be buried, and what do you want
to wear and where's the
life insurance policies.
And it's not always where's the
key to the safety deposit box.
>> Noory: Are they
aware that they're dead?
>> Winkowski: Yes.
>> Noory: They are.
>> Winkowski: How do you not
stand at the foot of your casket
and looked in the casket
and see your body there.
>> Noory: And they
know it's them.
>> Winkowski: Of
course, they do.
>> Noory: Are they upset?
>> Winkowski: You know what,
I think it is everybody's
choice to die when they die.
I think you know that
before you come back.
You can't remember how could you
live your whole life thinking,
"Oh gosh, when I'm 42, I'm
going to get hit by a bus."
You couldn't live.
I don't think all of them are
real happy with their choices
if they're dead at that point.
But they do accept it.
>> Noory: Have you figured
out what you believe
the other side might be?
>> Winkowski: I know that when
they are standing at the foot
of their casket, they can see
loved ones that have crossed
on before them that are
going, "Come on, come on."
They can't talk to them.
And I think it's an
incentive to make
that person walk into the light.
But, you have freewill.
If you don't want to go,
you don't have to go.
>> Noory: You're a ghost buster.
That means you send them on.
>> Winkowski: I do.
>> Noory: Are there times
you wish that they stayed?
>> Winkowski: Oh no, never.
>> Noory: You're always
glad they moved on.
>> Winkowski: Right.
And maybe if I could find one
that did windows and iron but--
>> Noory: Good luck.
>> Winkowski: Yeah, right.
>> Winkowski: No.
>> Noory: How do you get
them to go to the other side?
>> Winkowski: Believe it or not,
the older I've gotten,
the easier it is.
When I was 14 or 15 or
16 years old talking
to a 45-year-old
male ghost and going,
"I'm going to make the
right white light for you
and you're going to go into it."
It's like, "Yeah right, girlie."
>> Noory: They don't
listen to you?
>> Winkowski: To a 14-year-old?
>> Noory: Well.
>> Winkowski: You know,
but as I've gotten older,
plus the fact is that
once I clear a house,
I protect the house so that
it can never happen again.
And if they choose not to leave,
then the protection is going
to go up and they can't
ever get out of the house.
So, their choice is go
to the light or leave.
>> Noory: Is a ghost who hangs
around the house a poltergeist
or is that something else?
>> Winkowski: Poltergeist,
ghost, spirit,
I think there's a bunch
of different names
for the same earthbound spirit.
>> Noory: Are they evil or not?
>> Winkowski: They have the
same personality they had
when they were alive.
If they were a nice widow
lady when they're alive,
they're going to be a nice widow
lady ghost in somebody's house.
>> Noory: OK.
>> Winkowski: If they were a
pervert when they were alive,
they were going to be a
pervert when they're dead.
And oh gosh, and I'm invisible
and I could really... voyeur.
>> Noory: Do what they do.
>> Winkowski: That's
right, right.
>> Noory: What about
haunting, Mary Ann?
>> Winkowski: I think that--
and it's odd, I think relatives
that have issues when they die,
a mother that hasn't talked
to her daughter for 15 years
or that kind of a thing,
that's where I see more of
a family getting involved.
You know, "Well, I'll fix her
now that I'm dead," and that's--
and I would consider
that more a haunting.
Ninety percent of
the house is I do,
the ghost is a total stranger.
Your own relative in most
instances wouldn't do
that to you, where the
energy drink cause problems
with your electric
and everything
in the house, move things.
>> Noory: Do you sense
these ghosts or Feel them?
How do you--
>> Winkowski: See them.
>> Noory: You see them?
>> Winkowski: I see them
as clear as I see you.
I've never seen a wiz
or a streak of lightning
or anything like that.
Hair color, eye color,
the clothes they have on,
that's how I see them.
And unless I try to
get their attention,
they don't really
know I can see them.
You know, a lot of times I wink
at one of them and they go.
>> Noory: Did they
ever wink back?
>> Winkowski: You
know, sometimes.
>> Noory: Hi there.
>> Winkowski: How are you doing?
>> Noory: Are they
always the same age
as they were when they died?
>> Winkowski: Yes.
They do not get older
when you are earthbound.
Once you cross over, then you
go back to an age that you look
and felt good, which
isn't necessarily 18.
>> Noory: They have
the right to pick.
>> Winkowski: That's right.
>> Noory: They pick their age.
They usually go back
to 45 to 55 years old.
>> Noory: Really?
How about clothes style?
>> Winkowski: Usually, they have
on what they were buried in.
But I have seen them change
clothes and they won't tell me.
I've seen smoke, tobacco,
pipes, Dillard's in the sky.
I don't know.
There's some place.
>> Noory: What do you think
the other side is now?
>> Winkowski: Eternal rest,
peace it has to be that.
You know, with my upbringing
and my religious background,
I have to say, heaven is what
your perception of that is.
>> Noory: Sure.
>> Winkowski: The
interesting thing--
>> Noory: And hell--
>> Winkowski: Well,
never, I was going there.
The interesting thing is no
matter how bad that person was
and I was asked to attend a
funeral of a man that was put
to death by the state, he did
heinous things, horrible things.
>> Noory: Why would
you want to go?
>> Winkowski: They
asked me to come.
They wanted to find out--
>> Noory: Their family did?
>> Winkowski: Yeah, because
they wanted to know if he--
now, that he was dead
if he would tell them
where the mother's body
was because they never--
>> Noory: You mean, the body
of the mother he killed?
>> Winkowski: Correct.
>> Noory: Did he tell them?
>> Winkowski: He did.
He did.
>> Noory: What?
>> Winkowski: The interesting
thing is the white light would
surround him too.
So, in Mary Ann's world,
everybody goes into that light
but somebody standing there
with the clipboard deciding
which way you're going.
He certainly didn't go
where Mother Theresa went.
>> Noory: Do they show
remorse on the other side?
>> Winkowski: I see a lot of
remorse here before they go in.
That's reasons sometimes where
some people don't go to light
because they're afraid
of retribution.
And of the funerals that I go
to, the interesting thing is--
and not funny ha-ha,
but funny interesting,
is that if the person was
an agnostic or an atheist,
there he is standing at the foot
of his casket a little shocked
that he's just not
a pile of ashes.
>> Noory: When you
go to a funeral,
is there always a spirit there?
>> Winkowski: Always.
Always, they're always
standing at the foot
of their casket listening
to everything that's said.
They can't read minds, which in
some instance is a good thing.
But they can-- you know,
the ladies would walk
down both sides and
check out their flowers,
who sent flowers, who didn't.
And it's a guy thing-- I don't
know, counting how many cars
in the funeral precession
to the cemetery.
They like lots of cars.
>> Noory: You had a
role in Ghost Whisperer.
What did you do for them?
>> Winkowski: Most of the
stories were cases that I had,
you know, worked on that they
Hollywoodized [phonetic].
>> Noory: Well, let's
take a look.
>> Winkowski: [Background Music]
'Cause I get a script every week
and I sit here with the
red pen and I'd go, "No,
you don't walk through a ghost.
Ghost doesn't walk through you.
They're not bloody,
they're not gory."
And he said, "Listen Mary
Ann, this is entertainment.
This is not a ghost
documentary every week."
He says, "People love it."
>> Noory: People
do love that show.
Of course it's not running now
but you've had fun doing that--
>> Winkowski: Five years--
>> Noory: -- with Jennifer Love.
>> Winkowski: Yeah.
It was-- It's such
an experience to deal
with even though I got
frustrated with them.
And I wanted it to be right.
I didn't want it to
be Hollywoodized.
But I think eventually, they--
everybody got the message.
>> Noory: Did they listen?
>> Winkowski: I think so.
I think so.
>> Noory: But they still
wanted to do it their own way.
>> Winkowski: Their own way.
That's right.
And so, I gave a little
and they gave a little.
And it did good.
>> Noory: You started
that two years old.
You said every child has
this gift, this ability.
>> Winkowski: Yes.
>> Noory: How good
do they get as a kid?
>> Winkowski: Depends
on the parents.
You know, if you kept
hearing when you're a child
"Oh, you're a big boy now.
Nobody is in your bedroom.
Don't be ridiculous."
"There's no such
thing as ghost."
"You know, your foot
can dangle off the bed.
Nobody is going to get it."
And it's like when you were a
kid and your mother sent you
down the basement to get
something, did you hum, whistle
or skip all the way down,
so it wouldn't get you.
That's-- we sense it.
We know there's something
going on.
>> Noory: Sure.
>> Winkowski: And-- but if
the parent is the parent
that will go, "Well, why?
What's going on?
What do you think is going on?"
At least the kid doesn't feel
like they're being scolded
for talking about it.
And they don't keep it inside.
And I really think it's
one of these things
if you don't use
it, you'll lose it.
>> Noory: Yeah, a lot of
parents do make that mistake.
>> Winkowski: Yes,
yeah, they do.
>> Noory: Try to
criticize the kid--
>> Winkowski: Right.
>> Noory: -- and
things like that.
>> Winkowski: And just
because you didn't see it
or remember seeing it when you
were a child doesn't mean your
child can't do it.
>> Noory: What are some of
the things that children see
that are spirit related
because they do see some ghosts.
They see something
come out of a closet.
>> Winkowski: They do.
>> Noory: Things
like that are scary.
>> Winkowski: The ones
that specifically try
to scare children will
come out of a closet.
Walk over to the bed
and bash against it--
>> Noory: Push or
try to hurt the kid.
>> Winkowski: -- so that it--
yeah, it shakes the kid up.
And the kid starts screaming
which in turns has the parents
running in, which is more energy
which they need to keep going.
So, if they can do anything
to stress out the kid--
did a house here two weeks ago.
Set of twin little
girls, six months old,
the one twin was very aware of
stuff going on at six months,
wouldn't sleep in her
crib, would sleep anywhere
in the house except her crib.
She had claw marks on her
crib, on the foot of her crib.
Didn't touch the other twin.
>> Noory: Yeah.
>> Winkowski: But that
twin was oblivious to it.
So, kids some pick
it up, some don't.
>> Noory: Claw marks.
That sounds like something evil.
>> Winkowski: It wasn't.
But the man probably was very
close to being a pedophile
when he had been alive.
And you think about running
your hand on a chalkboard.
When you got a six-month-old
baby in a crib
and you run your fingernails
down, the wooden headboard
of a crib, that's going to be
a screechy noise to an infant.
And that's what he was doing.
They were close enough where
if the cat had been 60 pounds,
maybe the cat could
have scratched it
but no cats can do that.
>> Noory: Well, you know,
we've talked about children
and let's look at this video.
>> Winkowski: There could
be signs in your house
that you have something.
If you have children,
listen to your kids.
Kids are excellent,
excellent barometers
if you've got a ghost
in the house.
Kids can play and talk
to their guardian angel.
They can play to earthbound--
with earthbound spirits,
spirits that crossed over.
But also, listen to your kids
if they're afraid to stay
in their bedroom in the
middle of the night.
Did they climb in bed with
you every time in the middle
of the night at 2
o'clock in the morning?
If your kids have
a lot of ear, nose,
throat and upper respiratory
problems, that could be a sign
that you've got a ghost in the
house, an earthbound ghost.
>> Noory: Yeah.
If children jump in the bed with
you, what does that tell you?
They're petrified of this ghost.
>> Winkowski: They're
afraid of their bedroom.
They are afraid.
And no kids should be
afraid in their own house.
I mean, does your six-year-old
had to take his sister
with him every time he goes
to the bathroom or goes
down the basement or they drag
the dog with them or the cat.
What is he afraid of?
He should not be
afraid in his own house.
There's something going on.
And if your children have an
earthbound spirit that's a
bully, another kid, all
of a sudden your perfectly
normal seven-year-old starts
taking a napkin and
throwing it on the gas stoves
and setting fire to
it or start to play
with scissors, you know--
>> Noory: That's
not a good friend.
>> Winkowski: No, somebody-- you
know, kids listen to other kids.
If the kids doesn't,
you know, 360 like that,
some thing is going on.
A lady had called in, I told her
better do something about it.
She goes-- I said, you
know, "Get the priest in,
have the house blessed, use
a smudge stick, do something.
Don't do nothing because the
kid is messing with your child."
Two weeks later she
calls, she says "Billy--
" who was the ghost, that
was the name the little boy
had given.
Her son had given
him the name Billy.
"Billy made me do it," threw
5 pounds of sugar in the dryer
and turned the dryer on.
The dryer couldn't
even be saved.
>> Noory: No.
>> Winkowski: They're lucky
the house didn't burn out.
>> Noory: My little
granddaughter has a ghostly
friend called Shabuzi
[assumed spelling].
We don't know who Shabuzi
ism but when she was a kid,
they were close friends.
She doesn't bring
her up anymore.
The girl is 13 now.
But she would make my daughter,
her mother put an extra
plate at the able.
>> Winkowski: That's right.
>> Noory: And then,
when Christie [assumed
spelling] my daughter sat down,
the little one screamed "Oh,
you're sitting on Shabuzi."
>> Winkowski: Exactly right.
>> Noory: Where do
they get that name?
>> Winkowski: It's what--
how they hear the
ghost talk to them.
>> Noory: I mean, did
the ghost tell them?
My name is Shabuzi.
>> Winkowski: Yeah, exactly.
It must have been a
fun name for the kid.
And the weird thing is this.
People always say, "Well,
when they were kids,
they had all these
imaginary friends.
I don't what happened to them."
An earthbound spirit
doesn't age.
Your child does everyday.
When your kids get too old,
the younger ghost kids
will just move to a house
where there're little
kids again.
That's where they disappear too.
>> Noory: What about animals?
>> Winkowski: Animals stay--
>> Noory: -- ghostly.
>> Winkowski: Absolutely,
animals can stay too.
And the white light is
actually there for them too.
There are a lot of animals
out in the country and wild
that are not domesticated
that I have seen.
And there's a lot of
domesticated animals
that stick around,
cats and dogs.
I don't really have a hard time
getting a dog to cross over,
sits, stays, make the light,
throw a stone or something
and the dog will
jump right into it.
A cat, you know, cats,
they have their own mind.
>> Noory: They like to stay.
>> Winkowski: Yeah.
And I have to hope that there's
a spirit of a person there
that scoop the cat up
and take the cat up.
>> Noory: A lot of people will
talk about their dead animals
and see pawprints on the bed.
>> Winkowski: Yes,
they can feel it.
>> Noory: Some, they
make that indentation.
>> Winkowski: That's right.
They can feel it absolutely.
And they come back and
forth and visit too.
Anybody that has died
is-- if you trim of them,
that means they've crossed over.
They are not stuck.
They are not earthbound.
Earthbound spirits have
never been in dreams.
So, if you see your
love pets in a dream,
they're where they're
supposed to be, you will meet
up with them again
at some point.
Grandmas, grandpas, relatives,
anybody that you've see
in a dream, they're where
they're supposed to be.
And that's good because you
can actually talk to them just
like we're talking,
people don't realize that.
>> Noory: I've always thought
dying was like dreaming.
>> Winkowski: I think
it is to a point.
I think that's a
good way to put it.
People that have and had
had any kind of surgery
where they are knocked
out for the surgery,
I think that's almost
the same thing.
One minute, you're
awake, the next minute,
they're waking you
up in recovery.
That has to be like dying.
Same thing.
>> Noory: And Mary Ann,
tell me a little bit
about the near death
experiences in people.
What is that?
>> Winkowski: Most
of those people
when they have a near
death experience go
into that white light.
They see people in there
that have died before them.
And apparently, it's
such a wonderful all
encompassing feeling.
They don't even want to leave.
But if it's not their
time, they're going
to be pulled right
back into their body.
But-- and total strangers
have the same story.
So, it-- around the world.
So, it can't be just one person.
It happens over and
over and over again.
>> Noory: The people
who have passed on.
>> Winkowski: Yes.
>> Noory: At what
point do they realize,
I'm dead, it's over for me?
>> Winkowski: Pretty
much as soon
as they take their last breath.
When they come out of their
body and they see their--
you know, see their
body right there,
they pretty much know
that they're dead.
>> Noory: Are they in shock?
>> Winkowski: I think
sometimes they are.
It's like, you know-- a lot
of times, it's like "Oh, no.
You know, boy that
was a stupid thing.
Why was I drinking and driving?"
But, you know, and sometimes
they know it was just their
own fault.
People that have long
lingering illnesses though,
they're so relieved.
They feel they're out of pain.
>> Noory: Do they want closure?
>> Winkowski: Some of them do.
And that's why some of
them don't cross over.
But-- and that's why I
think I get invited to some
of the funerals because if
you can't talk to that person
for the last time, I think
it does give you closure.
>> Noory: Mary Ann, where do
demons come in and possessions.
>> Winkowski: I-- you
know, heaven and hell --
>> Noory: Is it part of the sin?
>> Winkowski: -- yin and yang.
I believe it is.
I don't think a demon was ever
from the light to
begin with though.
You can be a really,
really bad person
and do heinous things
and not be the devil.
>> Noory: True.
>> Winkowski: OK.
The devil like angels I think
are entities into their own.
I don't think that you--
in all the years I've been doing
this now, over 60 years George,
I think I've run across
three times that maybe,
maybe they were never from the--
>> Noory: Well, remember
the old saying though,
"The devil made me do it."
>> Winkowski: Yeah, well, it's
a good excuse for anybody, huh?
>> Noory: It is.
>> Winkowski: That's right.
>> Noory: Not real?
>> Winkowski: I don't think so.
>> Noory: But you think
the devil is real?
>> Winkowski: I do.
>> Noory: Yeah.
>> Winkowski: And I think a lot
of times, he probably just takes
out a human form and
is walking among us.
>> Noory: What has been for
you the scariest moment?
Doing what you do.
Because I would think
you open yourself
up to all kinds of things.
>> Winkowski: I really couldn't
do this if it's scared me
because I would be giving
that spirit more energy.
>> Noory: You've
never been scared?
>> Winkowski: I've been
angry at something.
I've been-- the weirdest
thing just happened.
Again, this has been
a very strange year.
A man had called me and he says,
"I think my mother is still here
and I think she's mad
at me 'cause I didn't give her
the kind of funeral she wanted."
And that is actually a reason
for some people to stay.
And there was woman
standing behind him.
And she had really
puffy cheeks and I say,
"Does your mother
have a full face?"
And he said, "Yes."
And I say, "I think
your mom is there."
So he asked me to
come out and I go out.
And the man had a little
bit of a speech impediment.
He-- definitely-- it was
almost somebody that stuttered
and he was trying to
say two and stop--
>> Noory: Sure.
>> Winkowski: OK.
>> Noory: Like maybe
he had a stroke.
>> Winkowski: Could be.
>> Noory: Yeah.
>> Winkowski: And so the
mother was standing there
and because I don't
have to talk out loud.
I said, "Yes."
I said, "You know,
your mommy is here."
And she looks at me and
she goes, "I'm here."
And I looked at her and says,
"Yeah, I know I see you."
So I'm talking to the son
and she goes, "I'm here."
And I'm looking at the son
and she says, "I'm here."
I said, "I know you're here."
She goes, "I'm upstairs,
I'm here."
He never buried his mother.
>> Noory: What?
>> Winkowski: The
mother was upstairs.
She has been dead
for six months.
>> Noory: This is like psycho.
>> Winkowski: Norman?
Yeah.
>> Noory: Norman Bates.
>> Winkowski: That's
right and I never--
>> Noory: What did you do?
>> Winkowski: Never has
happened to me before.
>> Noory: Did you call
the authorities, I mean--
>> Winkowski: Well yeah.
>> Noory: What did you do?
>> Winkowski: She said to
me what are you going to do?
>> Noory: Is it illegal
not to bury a dead person?
>> Winkowski: I think
in any state.
>> Noory: It is.
>> Winkowski: I think so.
>> Noory: Criminal or civil?
>> Winkowski: Something
defaming a body or something.
I'm sure they're--
>> Noory: I think the
body's already defamed.
>> Winkowski: Yeah,
but I think that's--
just don't play with
the dead body.
So but--
>> Noory: I have
to check into that.
>> Winkowski: Yeah,
I don't know.
I don't really know.
I know there is rules
about burying them.
I mean, you can't
bury in your backyard.
>> Noory: No you can't.
>> Winkowski: No, so I don't
think you can leave them laying
on the bed up tairs either.
Anyway--
>> Noory: Gees.
>> Winkowski: So I said, "OK."
I promised the mother I
say, "I'll do something.
I'll make sure your
body is out of here."
So said to him, "OK, I'm
going to make the light,
she's going to go it."
I just wanted to
get out of there.
>> Noory: Well you have--
>> Winkowski: And my
husband was with me.
>> Noory: Did you tell somebody
there was a dead body upstairs?
>> Winkowski: Well,
of course I did.
After we got out of the house,
I pulled into a parking lot
and I called the local
police and luckily, he said,
"I who you are, you're
from the television show,
Ghost Whisperer."
I said, "Yeah, great,
there's a dead body.
>> Noory: Now go get the body.
>> Winkowski: Right.
So they did and the police
department called me a few days
later and they had
him-- they were--
had him in a psych
ward testing him.
Right. But mom was in
garbage bags and duct tape
up on the bed upstairs.
>> Noory: Now, he
didn't kill her, did he?
>> Winkowski: No, no.
>> Noory: OK.
>> Winkowski: She died
of natural causes,
but he's still never buried her.
Never even and apparently,
there were sort of recluses
in the neighborhood,
really never noticed.
>> Noory: You know, I bet this
happens everywhere, everywhere.
>> Winkowski: This is
was the first for me.
Never, I was surprised.
>> Noory: And never again.
>> Winkowski: I hope not.
I hope not.
>> Noory: How long
was the person dead?
>> Winkowski: About six months.
>> Noory: Six months.
>> Winkowski: Yes, so
she was pretty mushy
when they took her out.
>> Noory: She was.
>> Winkowski: I mean,
the mother looked fine.
You know, 'cause of course,
it's the body that's mangled
or gorier that the spirit--
her spirit looked fine, but.
>> Noory: So was she
relieved once you've told?
>> Winkowski: Yes, yeah.
I said and I looked
at her I said,
"I'm going to tell the police."
She said, "Good."
I said, "OK."
>> Noory: Did she move on?
>> Winkowski: I did.
I made the light and
she went right into it.
Knowing that she was finally
going to have her body at rest.
>> Noory: Have you ever had a
difficult time having somebody
to leave?
>> Winkowski: I have.
I have. The one told me,
he said he was going to go.
He's the one that actually
flipped an ax at me.
I wouldn't do this if I
thought I could get hurt.
>> Noory: Telekinesis,
a real ax.
>> Winkowski: Yes, a real ax.
And it went pss,
pss, pss, pss, pss.
>> Noory: Missed
you by how much?
>> Winkowski: It was all
this close to my face.
>> Noory: Wow.
>> Winkowski: But it was
going in this direction.
>> Noory: Why was he
so upset with you?
>> Winkowski: He
was one of the three
that I don't think has
ever gone to the light.
That was one of them.
>> Noory: He was bad
in this human life.
>> Winkowski: Right, right,
and so he did terrible
things in this house.
And he promised me he
would go to the light.
So I made the light-- there
were two others beside him
and I watched the two walk in to
the light and he started walking
to the light and before he
got to it, he just veered off
and I haven't ran
into him again.
>> Noory: Have you ever had
a case where the entity said,
"Mary Ann, the money is in
the mattress, it's here."
>> Winkowski: Oh yeah, I found a
lot of stuff for a lot of people
like that, absolutely.
Yeah, there was one
that was pretty cool.
She wanted me to come and
it was-- family fighting,
family feuding, that side and
this side and what have you.
But anyway, so he wanted
me to come to the house.
The ghost did, and they
invited me to come over after.
And here they had the big pipes
for furnaces down the basement.
The ghost said, "Tell
my granddaughter
that on the pipe that's marked
with the black like magic marker
and has two at the end."
He says, "Tell her to
take those two apart,"
and out fell a folder
with probably
about 6,000 dollars in cash.
>> Noory: How about that?
>> Winkowski: Yeah,
that was good.
Good.
>> Noory: She was happy.
>> Winkowski: She was happy.
>> Noory: He was happy.
>> Winkowski: Everybody
was happy.
>> Noory: Everybody was happy.
>> Winkowski: Right.
>> Noory: I love that story.
>> Winkowski: Yeah, there
are some good stories.
>> Noory: Why do
you do what you do?
>> Winkowski: Well, I guess I've
always done it and I was raised
with good work ethics and
you just keep on doing it.
>> Noory: You're helping people.
>> Winkowski: And I'm
helping people and I meet lots
of really neat people.
And because of Ghost Whisperer,
I met a lot of famous people.
Which I-- from Cleveland, I
obviously wouldn't have bet.
So it's fun and I keep
thinking I'm going to slow down,
you know, and every
time I think then,
the phone rings off the hook.
>> Noory: You'll
never slow down.
>> Winkowski: I know.
>> Noory: What do you think
of people who sell a house
but never tell somebody
that it's haunted.
>> Winkowski: Well, I don't
know about every state,
but if there's about six days
that I know of and one is Ohio
that are on your disclosure.
>> Noory: You must put it down.
>> Winkowski: It is--
is house haunted?
Has it ever been and
what did you do about it?
I have a bunch of real estate
companies that I work for.
If they have an open house
and somebody is walking
in the front door
for their open house
and running off the back
door, there's good reason.
But there are people right now
that will not even buy
a house that's for sale
if they don't walk in and
run their hands over the top
of the door to see
if the queen seed is
up there so that they know--
>> Noory: Really?
>> Winkowski: 'Cause if
the queen seed is there,
then the house is clear.
>> Noory: Well, I'm not
sure I would buy a house
if somebody died in
it if I knew about it.
You would, you wouldn't care.
>> Winkowski: Well,
this is the thing.
If it was natural causes, that
does not have to be disclosed.
It only has to be disclosed
if it was a violent death.
>> Noory: Yeah, exactly.
>> Winkowski: Right.
And that has happened where
once the carpet was picked up,
their blood all under
the carpet.
Yeah. And I had actually
been asked by the attorney
if I would go to court because
their people were trying
to get of the sale.
And I just sort of
looked at him and I said,
"Are you sure you want
me to come to court?"
He said, "Why?"
And I said, "Maybe
California, New York."
"Yeah?" I said, "But
in Ohio, I'm a nut."
I said, "I don't think
I would be a good idea
if I went to court."
I said, "You're going to
have 12 people on the jury,
six are going to go, "Wow,
that's cool," and six are going
to think, "She's crazy."
I say, "I don't think it
would be a good help."
He said, "Oh, OK."
So I never did go to court.
But they got out of it anyway.
>> Noory: Mary Ann, if
people want to travel
and follow you, what
will they do?
>> Winkowski: My website would
be the best way to do it,
which is maryannwinkowski.com.
>> Noory: Spell it out for us.
>> Winkowski:
M-A-R-Y-A-N-N-W-I-N-K-O-W-S-K-I.
>> Noory: And what do
you have for us here?
>> Winkowski: This is my latest
cook book, a hundred recipes
from a hundred ghosts and a
story to go with each one.
>> Noory: "Beyond Delicious."
Of course you're not
eating the dead, are you?.
>> Winkowski: No.
And you don't get a
ghost in your house
by doing one of these recipes.
>> Noory: You love
doing what you're doing.
>> Winkowski: I do.
>> Noory: You're excited
about it, I can tell.
>> Winkowski: I do.
I just-- it's part
of my life now.
>> Noory: All right,
Mary Ann Winkowski.
She's a ghost buster.
I'm George Noory and
this is Beyond Belief.
[ Music ]